# Temporal-Analysis-of-HSA-using-RNN

## Abstract

Drugs impact our body by binding with active sites of enzymes. The human serum albumin (HSA) constitutes half of the serum protein in the blood. It can bind with a wide variety of drugs since it has a good binding affinity. Protein’s conformations are subject to unpredictable changes in its early stages, making it difficult to anticipate. Analysis of distances of various amino acids in the HSA and the distance between individual atoms in these amino acids (lysine, arginine, and histidine) can help identify cryptic sites in the protein. Analysis of these cryptic sites of the protein using molecular dynamics data is performed, for they are significant for the post-translational or externally induced chemical modification. Each frame consists of these different distances and is captured at every 10 ps. This paper’s objective is two-fold: (i) Predicting the direction of the protein movement in terms of these distances and (ii) temporal analysis of these distances to detect changepoints and identify intervals of high-binding affinity. Prediction of the direction is achieved using a recurrent neural network (RNN). Frames consisting of distances are given as input to the RNN to obtain a prediction of the next possible distance between these atoms, thus providing a sense of direction. A site is a potential binding site if the distance between two atoms in the amino acids is less than or equal to 10Å. Changepoint detection is done using the ruptures package of python for precision. The frames for which there is a massive difference in the distances compared to the ones preceding it are identified, giving an overall sense of conformational changes with respect to time.


Link to research paper : https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-981-16-2712-5_13
